- [Instructor] Now that we've written
the user service implementation
which implements the server stub,
let's go ahead and host that implementation
on a server.
For that we'll write a class UserServer.
Let's go back to the IDE.
I'll add a package here,
which is for the server.
And under this,
I will create a class
which is called UserServer.
So this class is basically going to host
the user service impl for us.
Let's come under that.
And first grab the logger in case we want to log anything.
So I'll say, private static final logger.
This is java.util.logging.
getLogger
and you just have to pass the name of the class.
There we go.
In addition to that,
let's also grab the server from the io.grpc package.
Let's grab a variable for that.
Now we are going to write certain methods
inside this UserServer class.
The first one will be startServer.
What is this method going to do for us?
It is going to ensure that the user service impl class
is hosted on a specified port.
That's all that we're going to do.
How do we do that?
Let's find out.
First we declare a port.
It's typically 50051.
And then we're going to grab that server variable.
And we're going to use the server builder
to build that object.
So ServerBuilder.
This has a method called forPort.
So we specify the port that we declared on line 14.
Next,
we have to ensure that we specify the service class
that needs to be hosted.
So for that, there is a method called addService.
And we just have to feed an instance
of the UserServiceImpl class.
This is the one that we want to host.
After we do this, we build this.
And then we call this start method.
This will return the server object for us.
This will ensure that the server get started.
There's an error on line 19.
This is asking us to basically handle the I/O exception.
So I'm going to add a try/catch.
And instead of the exception.printStackTrace on line 23,
I will add a logger statement.
So say, logger.log.
Let the level be severe.
Let's put a simple message,
server did not start,
along with the exception object.
That is all.
So there we have the basic start server method.
In addition to this,
we're going to add a couple of more methods.
Let's go to line 28,
and add one more method called
stop server.
What are we going to do in this?
We are going to quickly check
if the server object is not null,
and if it is indeed not null,
then we are going to call the shutdown method.
The shutdown method is going to issue a command
to stop the server
so that no new calls will be accepted after this.
In addition to that,
I'm also going to call one more method,
which is await termination.
And this one takes two arguments.
One is the timeout period.
We're going to say 30.
And this 30 is basically going to be seconds.
So let me specify that time period like that.
So this await termination is going to ensure
that all the currently executing calls
get a time of 30 seconds to complete.
Once that timeout is reached,
the server is going to shut down anyway.
That is what we are going to do
as a part of the stop server method.
This is asking me to
basically handle the interrupted exceptions.
So let's go ahead and add it to the method signature.
Easy.
We add one more method,
which is,
public void blockUntilShutdown.
What is this going to do?
It's going to pretty much check the same thing.
Server, not null.
And if the server is not null,
we just say,
server.awaitTermination.
This time we are going to call the overloaded method
which does not take any arguments.
So the await termination method on line 31
ensures that it waits for a period of 30 seconds
to terminate.
But the await termination overloaded call on line 37,
ensures that there is no such time period.
It is just going to keep waiting for the termination.
In a minute, I'll tell you why we have defined
the blockUntilShutdown method.
The last part of this is write the main method.
So this main method is going to help us run this class
and it eventually start the server on port 50051.
So for this, we just grab the server instance.
Let's create that.
Once done, we can call the start server method
and after this,
we're going to call the blockUntilShutdown method.
Before this, let's quickly also add that exception
of interrupted exception to the method signature
of the previous method, right?
And let's add it on line 44 as well.
So.
The significance of this method is,
we know that whenever the execution of the main method
gets completed, the main thread is killed.
We do not want to abruptly stop the server.
We want to keep the server running,
which is why we are calling blockUntilShutdown.
That in turn,
internally invokes await termination
as we see on line 37,
which means the server is going to just keep running
without termination.
That's why we have this method in place.
The last thing that we have to do is,
on the start server method,
we are going to quickly add a shutdown hook.
So let me see what we can do.
Let's come back here on line 25.
And I'm going to grab the Java runtime.
Like that.
And I'm going to add a shutdown hook.
And the shutdown hook is going to take a thread
which is basically now an inner class.
And we have to provide the implementation
for the run method.
And what are we going to do in this run?
We're just going to say,
UserServer.this.stopServer.
Let's make sure that we surround this
with try/catch.
And let's add a logger here.
So I'm going to grab line 36.
Copy this.
And instead of doing exception.printStackTrace on line 31,
I'm going to add that logger line.
And you can just say,
server
shut down.
Let's also do one more thing
before we have this implementation inside run.
We just add one more logger statement here.
This is an info statement that I want to add.
And that is ensuring this,
that there's a clean server shut down
in case JVM was shut down.
All right.
So what we did is we added a shutdown hook
from lines 25 to lines 35.
And what is this about?
Let's say your server is started.
And then you kill the JVM.
In case you kill the JVM,
you also want that the server has a clean shutdown.
That is why we are adding this hook.
This hook has a thread that is running
and that thread will ensure that the server is stopped.
So we are invoking the stop server method
that we have written in this class.
So this will ensure that when the JVM is killed,
your user server will also have a clean server shutdown.
That is why we want to add that.
Okay.
So we are ready with the user server.
The last step of this in our demo will be
to test this out with a client.